Thomas Lehman-Borer and Rachel Chamberlain
Final Project Proposal
11 November 2016

We are hoping to create a program that will facilitate with the role-playing game Dungeouns and Dragons by completing menial tasks for the Dungeon Master (DM), who acts as facilitator during gameplay. While some actions (rolling dice, drawing and perusing maps) are essential parts of the game that should not be automated, other parts (keeping track of various character sheets, engaging in combat, etc.) can be tedious and would be benefited by some level of automation. To that end, we hope to create a module that can be imported into the python shell in order to expidite the more tedious aspects of gameplay. In order to fight feature creep, we have listed out several tiers of features by priority, below. We will not attempt any lower tier features until we have finished all of the features of the upper tiers.

PRIMARY GOALS
1. Campaign data is read in from a text file at the beginning of a session and written to another text file any time the save() function is called.
2. In the dnd.py module, we will define a SentientBeing class, which will have subclasses of Monster and Character. The Monster class need only have the attributes health, weapons, treasure, and armor, while the Character class should also have a name and level. These classes will be expanded upon in lower tiers. Printing either a character object or a monster object will return the stats of that object in an easy-to-read manner. 
3. The dnd.py module will also have a combat function which accepts two lists. The first list has all of the character objects and the second has all of the monster objects. The function randomly orders the characters and monsters (as if rolling for initiative) to determine the order of attack. The function asks for input from the user (the DM) to determine what each character and monster does. The DM will be able to say that the character attacks a particular monster with a particular weapon, and the function will determine (based on randomness and the armor of the monster) whether the monster was hit. If the attack was successful, the function will ask the player to roll a given number of dice. The DM enters the result of the real-life die roll, and the monster's health is reduced by that value. The combat function continues cycling through all the characters and monsters with positive health until all the monsters or all the characters are defeated.

SECONDARY GOALS

TERTIARY GOALS

QUATERNARY GOALS

QUINARY GOALS

SENARY GOALS

SEPTENARY GOALS

OCTONARY GOALS

NONARY GOALS

DENARY GOALS
...because you can never be sure.
